This project includes the plan which shows our whole process, including our research, survey creation, and presentation script, and the project poster, which includes our results in bar charts. The link to the survey is here: https://stthomas.az1.qualtrics.com/jfe/preview/previewId/e011404b-96dc-4158-8ac7-3d9272af8fcf/SV_6rgyLJczLBMkh02?Q_CHL=preview&Q_SurveyVersionID=current

This is my project that discusses the importance and ethics of using AI in communications through a comparison survey. The purpose of this project is to highlight the rising use of AI in communications. As AI can produce its own statements, there has been a rising concern that AI might pose a threat to the PR field through deceiving readers among other ways. The project strived to highlight the importance of transparency when AI in the field to show how AI can be a valuable tool so long as it is used responsibly, but at the same time, remind us that while beneficial, AI should be used to replace PR writers. A survey was created to help portray the use of the AI in communications. The survey included 2 essays for the user to distinguish of the same topics, one written by us and the other written completely by AI after ours was finished. Additionally, the survey included a question regarding how confident the user was with distinguishing the two essays. Gathering 17 responses, the project revealed that while most students could correctly identify the essay written by us, they had a harder time correctly identifying the essay completely written by AI. As for confidence levels, most students were only up to moderately confident with their responses. The two students who responded very confident to the question did not distinguish the two articles correctly. The essays revealed that AI responses are not as personalized as human responses and that names and ages are often not included in them. For emotional communications, good human writers will always be need and writers should strive to disclose the use of AI in an article.
